docs/docsite/rst/porting_guides/porting_guide_2.7.rst, before:

.. _porting_2.7_guide:

*************************
Ansible 2.7 Porting Guide
*************************

This section discusses the behavioral changes between Ansible 2.6 and Ansible 2.7.

It is intended to assist in updating your playbooks, plugins and other parts of your Ansible infrastructure so they will work with this version of Ansible.

We suggest you read this page along with `Ansible Changelog <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/CHANGELOG.md#2.7>`_ to understand what updates you may need to make.

This document is part of a collection on porting. The complete list of porting guides can be found at :ref:`porting guides <porting_guides>`.

.. contents:: Topics

Playbook
========

No notable changes.

Deprecated
==========

Using a loop on a package module via squash_actions
---------------------------------------------------

The use of ``squash_actions`` to invoke a package module, such as "yum", to only invoke the module once is deprecated, and will be removed in Ansible 2.11.

Instead of relying on implicit squashing, tasks should instead supply the list directly to the ``name``, ``pkg`` or ``package`` parameter of the module. This functionality has been supported in most modules since Ansible 2.3.

**OLD** In Ansible 2.6 (and earlier) the following task would invoke the "yum" module only 1 time to install multiple packages

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Install packages
      yum:
        name: "{{ item }}"
        state: present
      with_items: "{{ packages }}"

**NEW** In Ansible 2.7 it should be changed to look like this:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Install packages
      yum:
        name: "{{ packages }}"
        state: present


Modules
=======

Major changes in popular modules are detailed here

* The :ref:`DEFAULT_SYSLOG_FACILITY` configuration option tells Ansible modules to use a specific
  `syslog facility <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Facility>`_ when logging information on all
  managed machines. Due to a bug with older Ansible versions, this setting did not affect machines
  using journald with the systemd Python bindings installed. On those machines, Ansible log
  messages were sent to ``/var/log/messages``, even if you set :ref:`DEFAULT_SYSLOG_FACILITY`.
  Ansible 2.7 fixes this bug, routing all Ansible log messages according to the value set for
  :ref:`DEFAULT_SYSLOG_FACILITY`. If you have :ref:`DEFAULT_SYSLOG_FACILITY` configured, the
  location of remote logs on systems which use journald may change.


Modules removed
---------------

The following modules no longer exist:


Deprecation notices
-------------------

The following modules will be removed in Ansible 2.10. Please update your playbooks accordingly.


Noteworthy module changes
-------------------------

No notable changes.

Plugins
=======

No notable changes.

Porting custom scripts
======================

No notable changes.

Networking
==========

No notable changes.

Commit message:

Load role vars and defaults before parsing tasks (#40982)
* Load role vars and defaults before parsing tasks. Fixes #40163

* Add porting guide note

* Wording clarifications

* typo

* grammar fixes

docs/docsite/rst/porting_guides/porting_guide_2.7.rst, after:

.. _porting_2.7_guide:

*************************
Ansible 2.7 Porting Guide
*************************

This section discusses the behavioral changes between Ansible 2.6 and Ansible 2.7.

It is intended to assist in updating your playbooks, plugins and other parts of your Ansible infrastructure so they will work with this version of Ansible.

We suggest you read this page along with `Ansible Changelog <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/CHANGELOG.md#2.7>`_ to understand what updates you may need to make.

This document is part of a collection on porting. The complete list of porting guides can be found at :ref:`porting guides <porting_guides>`.

.. contents:: Topics

Playbook
========

Role Precedence Fix during Role Loading
---------------------------------------

Ansible 2.7 makes a small change to variable precedence when loading roles, resolving a bug, ensuring that role loading matches :ref:`variable precedence expectations <ansible_variable_precedence>`.

Before Ansible 2.7, when loading a role, the variables defined in the role's ``vars/main.yml`` and ``defaults/main.yml`` were not available when parsing the role's ``tasks/main.yml`` file. This prevented the role from utilizing these variables when being parsed. The problem manifested when ``import_tasks`` or ``import_role`` was used with a variable defined in the role's vars or defaults.

In Ansible 2.7, role ``vars`` and ``defaults`` are now parsed before ``tasks/main.yml``. This can cause a change in behavior if the same variable is defined at the play level and the role level with different values, and leveraged in ``import_tasks`` or ``import_role`` to define the role or file to import.

Deprecated
==========

Using a loop on a package module via squash_actions
---------------------------------------------------

The use of ``squash_actions`` to invoke a package module, such as "yum", to only invoke the module once is deprecated, and will be removed in Ansible 2.11.

Instead of relying on implicit squashing, tasks should instead supply the list directly to the ``name``, ``pkg`` or ``package`` parameter of the module. This functionality has been supported in most modules since Ansible 2.3.

**OLD** In Ansible 2.6 (and earlier) the following task would invoke the "yum" module only 1 time to install multiple packages

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Install packages
      yum:
        name: "{{ item }}"
        state: present
      with_items: "{{ packages }}"

**NEW** In Ansible 2.7 it should be changed to look like this:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Install packages
      yum:
        name: "{{ packages }}"
        state: present


Modules
=======

Major changes in popular modules are detailed here

* The :ref:`DEFAULT_SYSLOG_FACILITY` configuration option tells Ansible modules to use a specific
  `syslog facility <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Facility>`_ when logging information on all
  managed machines. Due to a bug with older Ansible versions, this setting did not affect machines
  using journald with the systemd Python bindings installed. On those machines, Ansible log
  messages were sent to ``/var/log/messages``, even if you set :ref:`DEFAULT_SYSLOG_FACILITY`.
  Ansible 2.7 fixes this bug, routing all Ansible log messages according to the value set for
  :ref:`DEFAULT_SYSLOG_FACILITY`. If you have :ref:`DEFAULT_SYSLOG_FACILITY` configured, the
  location of remote logs on systems which use journald may change.


Modules removed
---------------

The following modules no longer exist:


Deprecation notices
-------------------

The following modules will be removed in Ansible 2.10. Please update your playbooks accordingly.


Noteworthy module changes
-------------------------

No notable changes.

Plugins
=======

No notable changes.

Porting custom scripts
======================

No notable changes.

Networking
==========

No notable changes.
